Reviewer's Comments: 

This is an interesting paper that represent a follow-up of the authors’ previous studies of Monte Carlo models of CV disk winds, using their previously developed code PYTHON. The basic aim of the paper is to demonstrate that their parameterized approach works not only fro UV spectra of CVs (as demonstrated earlier), but also for optical spectra. 

The paper is generally well written and worth publishing. I have nevertheless a number of relatively minor points that should be addressed before the paper is accepted. I list them more of less chronologically below. 


- A general comment on Sec. 2.1: It is not specified what opacity sources were used when evaluating a balance of heating and cooling in the wind, thus determining its temperature structure. The subsequent text talks about H and He being treated in some detail in NLTE (as so-called macro-atoms), so presumably the lines and continuum of H and He were considered in energy balance. The text also talks (the end of 2.2) about a two-level approximation or lines, presumably metal ones, but it is not clear whether this approximation is used just to evaluate the source function for the radiation transfer, or also for energy balance. This point should be clarified. 

- Eq. (2): it is not clear what W means in this context. As used in the previous context, Eq.(1), it meant a fraction of recombination going directly to the ground state, while this interpretation does not apply for a modified Boltzmann distribution expressed by Eq. (2). 

- Eq.(4): strictly speaking, it applies for a spherically symmetric situation, while the present cad has rather a cylindrical symmetry. I do not require the authors to modify their approach (which is commonly used in many studies), but merely mention it as a possible source of uncertainties. 

- The text on collisional rates at the end of 2.3 is unclear and misleading. First, neglecting the collisions for dipole forbidden transitions (by using van Regemorter formula) is never a reasonable approximation. 
Second, since the applications presented in the paper seem to take into account only H and He in NLTE, one can then use better data available in the literature that van Regemorter formula. Moreover, since the authors specify that the levels for H I are characterized by the main quantum number, they implicitly assume that all l states within a given n are distributed according their statistical weights; that is also assuming implicitly that collisions between, for instance, the 2s and 2p states are dominant, even if the transition 2s - 2p is dipole forbidden, in a direct contradiction with the previous statement. 

- Sec 4.1, the values for the benchmark model: What is a justification for the adopted values of r_min and r_max? In particular, why r_min is chosen to be 4 R_WD? One might expect that this value might be much smaller, close to 1, since the disk is hottest at these regions. What would be the observable effect of changing these values? 

- Figs. 9 and 10, caption: should mention that the gray line represent the model A (if this is indeed the case). 

- Generally, there are many free parameters of the model. The authors showed that changing just two of them, R_v and alpha, one can get better agreement a model (B) and observations of one particular CV system, RW Tri. However, the reader is left wondering what the effects of other free parameters might be. The authors may perhaps devote a short paragraph to a discussion of possible effects of other parameters, or possibly a relative unimportance thereof. 

- Since the authors mention that the wind clumping might be important, they could have easily modify their code to include it, at least at the simplest parameterized way as is customary in studies of stellar wind. This would add just one mode free parameter (the covering factor f) in an already large list of parameters. I do not require it in the presenter paper, but the authors may consider to include it in future studies.






MY RESPONSE:

We would like to thank the referee for a helpful and constructive report. We outline our responses below in the same order as the original report. Most points simply necessitated small changes to the text, although a few tests were conducted to verify some of the statements we make below- see supplementary_notes.pdf.

1 - [A general comment on Sec. 2.1:] We have added some text to section 2.4, making clear that metals are included as opacity sources and in heating/cooling. We have also added some text to sec 2.2 about the two-level atom framework and how it is used, with a reference to LK02.

2 - [Eq. (2):] W is defined in the previous paragraph as an effective dilution factor- the quantity eta represents the fraction of recombination going directly to the ground state. Thus the quantity W is appropriate in eq 2- however, we agree this could be clarified and so have explicitly stated that eq (2) is a dilute Boltzmann equation.

3- [Eq 4.] We am not sure that the equation makes an assumption about spherical summetry (but please correct us if we are mistaken). The escape probability in the equation doesn't make, for example, the assumptions about isotropic escape probabilities that are commonly made in stellar winds or supernovae. This is because the velocity field is more complex and instead we record the escape probability along the direction of each photon that comes into resonance.

4- [RE: collisional rates / van regemorter] We agree this is unclear in the paper. The real point here is as follows, which should be explained more clearly, so we have added some text to section 2.3 briefly explaining this.

In H and He II, the energy difference between various l states within a given n is small, and thus we assume, as the referee and the text of the paper states, that the populations are 'l-mixed'. 
This approximation is reasonable when considering the dense regions of the wind we are concerned with, and we believe that even if this wasn't true, it is reasonable when one is interested in calculating line emission in these species, as it is the overall population of e.g. the n=3 state in H which determines the H alpha emissivity.

In He I this is not the case, as singlet and triplet lines are possible. However, these lines are formed in a regime where the level populations are determined primarily by bound-free, rather than bound-bound processes. 

To convince us, and the referee, that this is indeed the case we have conducted some additional tests. We added an abritrarily strong transition between subshells which were not radiatively linked, in order
to simulate dominant collisions. This had a small effect on level populations, but the effect on emergent 
emissivities is negligible, and the spectra appear identical. This is because in the emission regions the level populations are more or less distributed according to statistical weight due to bound-free processes dominating the level populations.

We acknowledge the point about about data available in the literature- we plan to incorporate better data for the treatment of collisions for dipole forbidden transitions by using spline fits to collisional coefficients for each transition in the near future, but we do not feel this is necessary for the current publication. 

5- [Sec 4.1 RE: rmin and rmax] We adopt these values as we are directly comparing to LK02 and SV93. SV93 imposed this inner limit as in their models. We have mentioned this in the text in section 2 and discuss the observable effect briefly in section 5. We have verified that our hypothesis about what one would expect to happen is indeed seen with various models with launch radii right into 1 R_WD. We emphasise that these differences are quantitative and do not affect our qualitative conclusions.

6- [figure captions] We have added text to captions of figures 9 and 10.

7- [RE: free parameters] We have added a short section (5.5.) with a paragraph on this, as there was nowhere else that seemed particularly appropriate to place the discussion. 

8 - [RE: clumping implementation] As it happens we have recently incorporated this exact approach into the code and are investigating it's effect. Thankyou for the suggestion.